layout: post

title: "Title of this page (Material Object)"

Among the Lakota the eagle is viewed as “the strongest and bravest of all birds” and because of this, the eagle feather is a very special part of their culture and plays a big role among their ceremonies. This ‘object’ comes from an eagle and is revered for the great power it brings to those who are blessed with it. It is believed to bring those happiness and bravery when waved over their head. Historically, they have been given to a warrior for their victory in a battle or for their great bravery in the battle, more recently, according to South Dakota Public Broadcasting, they are being given to those who complete an accomplishment such as graduation or becoming a Staff Carrier. They are given this feather as an honour and to communicate the community's support.

While there do not seem to be any gender restrictions upon who may handle the feather, there are special circumstances when a woman is not allowed to touch the feather or any other sacred objects. During her Moontime (menstruation) “a woman’s power is being renewed” she must not come into contact with any sacred object because “her power during this time can interfere with the power in the Sacred Pipe, Eagle Feathers” as well as food that would be served at the ceremonies.

Another reason provided by Jean Stevenson in The Circle of Healing is that women are “releasing negativity through a natural process” and they are not asked to participate in the ceremonies due to “their energy, which is going in a counter-clockwise direction rather than a clockwise direction”. While mentioning that on their next Moontime she should focus on taking care of herself, and because she is so powerful in this time, “she needs to be honoured and to honour herself.”  

The eagle feather is also added to the Sacred Pipe because it represents the “Great Spirit who is above all and from whom all strength and power flow”, the feather adds meaning to the pipe and allows those in the community access to the Divine. In many religions and cultures there is a way to access the Divine and there may be restrictions on who is allowed access based on their gender, such as Catholic Churches and altar participation. The Catholic Church is geared to a more patriarchal hierarchy with women acting as subordinate to men, and they have limited access to the Divine. In Lakota communities it seems women are treated with a more egalitarian approach and are offered access to the divine with the exception of their Moontime.  
